Open Settings.
Click on Network & Internet.
Click on Status.
Click the Change Adapter options item.

or just run: ncpa.cpl

    Right-click the network adapter you want to prioritize, and select Properties.

    Select the Internet Protocol Version 4 (TCP/IPv4) item.
Click the Properties button.

In the "General" tab, click the Advanced button.

Clear the Automatic metric option.
In the "Interface metric" field assign a priority value for the adapter.Quick Tip: The lower the metric number means higher priority, and a higher number indicates lower priority.

Click the OK button.
Click the OK button again.
Click the Close button.

Once you've completed the steps, Windows 10 will prioritize the network traffic depending on your configuration.

The only caveat using the Control Panel experience is that depending on your network setup, you may need to adjust the metric for the Internet Protocol Version 6 (TCP/IPv6) as well, if that's the protocol you're using. (Usually, you will be using the TCP/IPv4 protocol.)


At any time, you can revert the changes using the same instructions, but on step No. 9, make sure to check the Automatic metric option.

In powershell

Type the following command to identify the current interface metric and interface index number and press Enter:Get-NetIPInterface

Type the following command to change the priority order of the network adapter and press Enter:Set-NetIPInterface -InterfaceIndex 21 -InterfaceMetric 10In the command, make sure to change the -InterfaceIndex value to reflect the network adapter you want to prioritize and change the -InterfaceMetric value to assign a priority. Also, remember that a lower metric number means higher priority, and a higher metric number means lower priority.

Type the following command to identify the current interface metric and interface index number and press Enter:Set-NetIPInterface -InterfaceIndex 21 -AutomaticMetric enabledIn the command, make sure to change the -InterfaceIndex value with the correct number of the network adapter you want to apply an automatic metric.
