Log in to the computer in question with a local administrator account.

REMEMBER
That when the domain controller is set up this creates also a DNS server inside the domain controller host.
This means that in order to reach the domain the clients must be connected to the domain controller's DNS.

Hence to do that you must first pointing the client to the ip that corresponds to the domain controller's DNS.

Operatively to do that:
open your Network connections (run ncpa.cpl)
select the connection thas is on the same subnet of the domain controller (if you have set up a bridge connection you must select the bridge connection)
Right click>Properties
Select TCP/IPv4>Properties
Then check the option 'Use the following DNS server addresses'
In the 'Preferred DNS server' field insert the domain controller's IP
In the 'Alternate DNS server' field you can insert another DNS. As this is a failover DNS you may want to indicate a public DNS (like the google ones 8.8.8.8) but you can also insert the IP of another DNS that you own
(this is the case if you have a DNS inside the router (as this is the most common case) and you can indicate the IP of the router).

click ok and done!

finally check that you have intenet connection with a:

ping debian.net

you may also need to reboot your machine!
___




Click Start and right-click “Computer.”

Click “Properties.”

Click the “Change settings” link under “Computer name, domain, and workgroup settings.”

Click the “Computer Name” tab.

Click the “Change . . . “ button.

Click the “Domain” radio button and type the name of your Windows domain in the domain field.

Click “OK.” When prompted, enter the username and password of an account that has the right to add computers to the domain.
Usually, this account must be in the Account Operators, Domain Admins or Enterprise Admins security group.
You will need to type in the credentials of the Administrator of your Windows Server

Click “OK” again.

Reboot the computer when prompted.

Now opening the Active Directory app on your server, in the Computers folder you will find
your computer just added.

Now remember that you can drag the computer to any other folder that you want to create (that must be inside your domain) like a group or organizational unit..



another way to add it is going to 'Settings' 'Users'
Switch to the ‘Access work or school’ tab.
Click on Connect.
A new window will pop up, click on ‘Join this device to a local Active Directory Domain’.
