You can install multiple software on multiple computers at once with Group Policy

Before doing this you will need 2 things:

1) a shared folder with full Read-only access (the shared folder can also be placed inside your server)
2) the .MSI packages that are microsft executables (because the .exe cannot be deployed massively)

1) Regarding the first point just create a folder anywhere in your server called 'Software'
in which you will place all your .msi packages then click right ->Properties ->Sharing->Advanced Sharing
Type in 'Share name': 'Software$' where the dollar symbol will allow to hide the folder (the folder will be hidden)
Then click on permission and be sure that the group 'Everyone ' is there and that has permission 'Read' allowed

Click Ok and close

2) Regarding the .msi packages most programs provide their .msi packages
In case this is not available you can use the converter from .exe to .msi
it is called 'MSI Wrapper' from Exemsi. This is totally free (but you can also pay to get more functions. anyways the free version is ok)

Install this programm run it and select your executable
click next and next (remember to choose the right architecture x86 or x64)
Leave the rest as default and click next
On Upgrade code just click on 'Create New'
You don't need to specifiy Application ID
The only thing to remember is to place '/S' as argument
This will allow the installation to be silent (this will allow to install automatically without any need to manage a wizard)

THe last windows 'Before install command line ' and 'after install command line' should be kept empty.
THen click on build and you will get your .msi

After getting the .msi remmeber to copy or move it to your previously shared folder.


Now open 'Group Policy Management'

Select your organizational unit previously created.

Right click ->'Create a GPO in this domain and Link it here..'
Just type a name you wish
This will create a policy that basically is a shortcut.
The real policy will be under the folder 'Group Policy Objects'

Now right click on the policy just created (on the shortcut)
select 'Edit'

This will open 'Group Policy Management Editor'
Click on 'Computer Configuration'-> 'Policies' ->'Software Settings'->'Software installation'

Click right on 'Software installation'->'New'->'Package...'
Now in the bar you should paste the newtork address of your shared folder
You can find it and copy just clickin right on your shared folder then Properties->Sharing and copy the path under 'Network Path'

Paste it on the bar click 'Open'
Now you can select your program

Finally click ok leaving the choice on 'Assigned'

DONE!

Now you should restart your client pc and you will be able to get your program
REMEMBER: you can insert more than one program!

If you cannot see the programs installed just open cmd as Administrator on your local client then type:
gpupdate /force

Now it will appear a long message stating that the policy has changed
It will ask to restart just type 'y' (no matter if it is not in capital letter)
Your client pc will now restart at the end you will see your programs
